# Node Express Webpack Boilerplate - Production and Development builds

This is a really long article. Sorry - it takes time to explain this stuff.

I **REALLY** struggled with building an error-free Webpack and Express application boilerplate. 

Every time I would pass one hurdle, another error would get generated by the next thing in the heap that was braking. Honestly, it was a very frustrating experience. 

Considering the fact that Express and Webpack are amongst the most used technologies on the web, you'd think that there were a lot more blog posts out there about how to set them up together, but no, you'd be wrong.

There are a couple that look at one aspect or another of integration, but besides [Alejandro Napoles'](https://alejandronapoles.com/) FANTASTIC series on the issue, there's really not much else. 

Link to code: **[Expack](https://github.com/bengrunfeld/expack)** (Express + Webpack). Similarily, the React version is called **[Rexpack](https://github.com/bengrunfeld/rexpack)** (React + Express + Webpack).

If you like the article or this project, please show some love by hitting the Clap/Applause button, starring it on Github (I love stars!!!), or just tweeting me a quick thank you note at [@bengrunfeld](https://twitter.com/bengrunfeld), which I also love.

## What We Want To Make

Firstly, we want to have both a development build of our code, as well as a production build, because we want to employ certain tools in one but not the other. 

For example, for our Development build, we want to transpile it from ES6+, lint it, run unit tests on it, run coverage reports for it, and to enable Hot Module Replacement (HMR) for an easier development experience. Re bundling, we do NOT want to minify it or uglify it, so that we can explore features and find bugs more easily. Similarly, we want the images to stay as their own files so that they are more easily identifiable - as opposed to being encoded in Base64 straight into our CSS file. 

For our Production build, 

















